Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# User Authorization

## Learning Objectives

- Explain User Authorization
- Define a callback to restrict user access
- Update app to restrict access to the user show and user's posts routes

## Outline

copy over app and npm install

#### What is User Autho?

- Making sure that someone else cannot edit/access your information

**Yesterday**

- we did user AUTHENTICATION... WHAT WAS THAT?
	- verify that a user has an account before allowing access
	- verify that a user is who they say they are
	- provide a name and password that we check against info stored in our database

# How are passwords stored

- Take a password
- add some salt
- then hash it

BUT SERVERS ARE STATELESS so how did we maintain that access

- use SESSIONS
- HOW DOES THAT WORK?!?

- User sends a cookie back to the server with their information when a request is made
- Tells the server who the user is

#### But what problem remains?

I have two users:

1. McK
2. Hari

What happens if I attempt to get access to Hari's information?

ACCESS GRANTED!

Let's fix that:

#### Callback

We have middleware that is run before a request reaches the route

- bodyParser
- morgan
- etc.

We can exploit this concept to add AUTHORIZATION to our application.

** I DO **

```
var restrictAccess = function(req, res, next) {
  var sessionID = parseInt(req.session.currentUser);
  var reqID = parseInt(req.params.id);
  sessionID === reqID ? next() : res.status(401).send({ err: 401, msg: 'YOU SHALL NOT PASS!'});
};
```

This function should accept the default `req` and `res` objects, but it needs another parameter we haven't seen before

#### `next()`

What is next?

- next allows us to trigger the next middleware or route handler.

draw picture

```
request_from_client -> | morgan | (next)-> | bodyParser | (next)-> | restrictAccess | (next)-> | route |

```

So we want our own restrictAccess 'middleware' to be called, executed, then we want to pass off the `req and res` objects to the next function -- our route

#### How do we authorize?

- make sure that the sessionID coming from the client's request matches the id of the route that is being triggered.

first we check the session
then get the id parameter from the url.

We compare those values:

- if they are equal, we pass off the `req/res` to the route handler by calling `next()`
- if not we send back an appropriate response to the client
	- the request never makes it to the route handler

### Lets restrict access to the user's show route

**EXPRESS WEBSITE**

```
app.get('/users/:id', restrictAccess, function(req, res) {
  var userID = req.params.id;

  User
    .findOne({
      where: { id: userID },
      include: [Post]
    })
    .then(function(user) {
      res.send(user);
    });
});
```

- We add in the restrictAccess function before the function that has the logic for our route
- the route is triggered, we run the restrictAccess function, then we either pass off the req/res object

**BREAK**

What questions do you have about how the authorization works?

**YOU DO** 20 minutes

#### GET
Add a nested route for viewing user's individual posts

`/users/:id/posts`
- this route should find all posts belonging to the user
- respond with all of the posts
- access should be restricted to the current logged in user

Test this out in the browser:
- login
- try to go to a user's posts page that is not the logged in user

**STUDENT REVIEW** 10 minutes

#### POST
Add a nested route for creating posts for a user

`/users/:id/posts`
- this route should create a new post for the current user
- access should be restricted to the current user

**STUDENT REVIEW** 10 minutes

# GO OVER LEARNING OBJECTIVES, FIELD QUESTIONS

# LETS DRY IT UP

```
var authenticate = function(req, res, next) {
  req.session.currentUser ? next() : res.status(403).send({ err: 403, msg: 'Log in troll'});
};
```


# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
